# 2024秋线性代数期中-回忆版

## 1. Multiple Choice.Only one choice is correct.

### [1]

Suppose $A$ is an $m \times n$ real matrix with $m<n$ ，and the equation $A x=b$ has a solution for any $m$－dimensional real column vector $b$ .Which of the following assertions must be true？

（A）$A x=b$ has a unique solution for every $b \in R^{m}$ .

（B）$A^{\top} x=d$ has a solution for any $d \in R^{n}$ .

（C）$N(A)=\{0\}$ .

（D）A has a right inverse.

### [2]

Suppose we have matrices $A, B$ satisfying $E A=B$ for some invertible matrix $E$ . Which of the following assertions must be true？

（A）$N(A)=N(B)$

（B）$C(A)=C(B)$

（C）$N\left(A^{\top}\right)=N\left(B^{\top}\right)$

（D）$A^{\top} A=B^{\top} B$

### [3]

For any $m \times n$ matrix $A$ with reduced row echelon from $U$ .Which of the following assertions must be true？

（A）$C(A)=C\left(A^{\top} A\right)$

（B） $\operatorname{rank}(A)=\operatorname{rank}\left(A^{\top} A\right)$

（C）$C(A)=C(U)$

（D）If $C(A)=R^{m}$ ，then $A^{\top} A$ is invertible.

### [4]

Let $A, B, C$ be $n \times n$ matrices such that $A B C=I$ ，where $I$ is the identity matrix of order $n$ ，then

（A）$A C B=I$

（B）$C B A=I$

（C）$B C A=I$

（D）$B A C=I$

### [5]

Let $A$ be an $n \times n$ matrix $(n>1)$ such that $A=A^{2}$ ，and $I$ be the $n \times n$ identity matrix， then

（A） $\operatorname{rank}(A)+\operatorname{rank}(A-I)>n$

（B） $\operatorname{rank}(A)+\operatorname{rank}(A-I)<n$

（C） $\operatorname{rank}(A)+\operatorname{rank}(A-I)=n$

（D） $\operatorname{rank}(A)+\operatorname{rank}(A-I)=n-1$

## 2. Fill in the blanks

[1] Let $A=\left[\begin{array}{lll}1 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 2 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 3\end{array}\right]$ ，then $A^{-1}=$ $\underline{\quad\quad\quad}$

[2] Let $A=\left[\begin{array}{ccc}1 & 2 & 3 \\ 2 & -1 & 1 \\ 3 & 1 & 3\end{array}\right]$ .The LDU factorization of $A$ has $L=$ $\underline{\quad\quad\quad}$

[3] The matrix which projects every vector $b$ in $R^{3}$ onto the line in the direction of $\left[\begin{array}{l}2 \\ 3 \\ 1\end{array}\right]$ through the origin is

[4] Let $A$ be a $2024 \times 2025$ real matrix with $\operatorname{dim} N(A)=11$ ，then $\operatorname{dim} N\left(A^{\top}\right)=$

## 3. Let

$$

A=\left[\begin{array}{ccc}

0 & 1 & 0 \\
1 & 0 & -1 \\
0 & 1 & 0

\end{array}\right]

$$

Consider $\quad X-X A^{2}-A X+A X A^{2}=I$,

where $I$ is the $3 \times 3$ identity matrix, and $X$ is a $3 \times 3$ matrix.

(a) Compute $I-A$ and $I-A^{2}$.

(b) Find all possible $X$.

## 4. Let

$$

A=\left[\begin{array}{llll}

1 & 0 & 2 & 0 \\
1 & 1 & 3 & 0 \\
1 & 0 & 2 & 1 \\
3 & 2 & 8 & 0

\end{array}\right], b=\left[\begin{array}{l}

3 \\
3 \\
3 \\
9

\end{array}\right]

$$

(a) Find the reduced row echelon form of $A$.

(b) Find a basis for the row space $C\left(A^{\top}\right)$, the column space $C(A)$, and the left nullspace $N\left(A^{\top}\right)$.

(c) Find the complete solution to $A x=b$. In other words, find all the solutions to $A x=b$.

## 5. Consider the following subspace of $R^{3}$ :

$$

V=\left\{\left.\left[\begin{array}{l}

x_{1} \\
x_{2} \\
x_{3}

\end{array}\right] \in R^{3} \right\rvert\, x_{1}+x_{2}+x_{3}=0\right\}

$$

(a) show that:

$$

V_{1}=\left[\begin{array}{c}

-1 \\
1 \\
0

\end{array}\right], V_{2}=\left[\begin{array}{c}

-1 \\
0 \\
1

\end{array}\right]

$$

is a basis of $V$.

(b) Let $T$ be the linear transformation from $V$ to $R^{3}$ defined as follows:

$$

T\left(\left[\begin{array}{l}

x_{1} \\
x_{2} \\
x_{3}

\end{array}\right]\right)=\left[\begin{array}{c}

2 x_{1}-x_{2} \\
x_{2}+x_{3} \\
x_{1}

\end{array}\right]

$$

Find the matrix reprosentation of $T$ with respect to the ordered basis $v_{1}, v_{2}$ of $V$ and the ordered basis

$$

e_{1}=\left[\begin{array}{l}

1 \\
0 \\
0

\end{array}\right], e_{2}=\left[\begin{array}{l}

0 \\
1 \\
0

\end{array}\right], e_{3}=\left[\begin{array}{l}

0 \\
0 \\
1

\end{array}\right]

$$

(C) Can we find a voctor $v \in V$ such that $T(v)=\left[\begin{array}{l}3 \\ 2 \\ 1\end{array}\right] of R^{3}$? If so, find one such $v$.

Otherwise give an explanation.

## 6. Let $A=\left[\begin{array}{rrr}1 & 1 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & 1 \\ 0 & 0 & -1\end{array}\right]$ and $U=\left\{B \in M_{3 \times 3}(R) \mid A B-B A\right\}$,

where $M_{3 \times 3}(R)$ denotes the vector space of all $3 \times 3$ real matrices with the ordinary matrix addition and scalar multiplication.

(a) Show that $U$ is a subspace of $M_{3 \times 3}(R)$.

(b) Find a basis of $U$.

(e) Find the dimension of $U$.

## 7. Prove the following two independent statements.

(a) Let $A$ be an $m \times n$ real matrix. Suppose $v_{1}, v_{2}, \cdots, v_{n}$ is a basis of $C\left(A^{\top}\right)$ and $w_{1}$, $w_{2}, \cdots, w_{t}$ is a basis of $N(A)$. Show that: $s+t=n$ and

$$

v_{1}, v_{2}, \ldots, v_{n}, w_{1}, w_{2}, \cdots, w_{t}

$$

is a basis of $R^{n}$.

(b) Let $A$ be an $m \times n$ real matrix with rank $m$. Show that $A A^{\top}$ is invertible.

