# MA117 2024秋 期中

> 2024 期中高数上试题 (回忆版)

## 一

Multiple Choice Questions: (only one correct answer for each of the following questions.)

### 1-1

Suppose that

$$
\int_{1}^{5} f(x) d x=3, \int_{5}^{6} f(x) d x=2, \int_{1}^{6} g(x) d x=2
$$

Then $\int_{1}^{6}(f(x)-2 g(x)) d x=$

(A) -1

(B) 1

(C) 3

(D) None of(A), (B) and (C) is correct

### 1-2

How many real roots does the equation $x^{3}=2 x^{2}+3 x-3$ have?

(A) 0

(B) 1

(C) 2

(D) 3

### 1-3

If $f(x)$ is twice differentiable on $[0,1]$ and $f^{\prime \prime}(x)>0$, then which of the following statements is correct?

(A) $f^{\prime}(1)>f^{\prime}(0)>f(1)-f(0)$

(B) $f^{\prime}(1)>f(1)-f(0)>f^{\prime}(0)$

(C) $f(1)-f(0)>f^{\prime}(1)>f^{\prime}(0)$

(D) $f^{\prime}(0)>f(1)-f(0)>f^{\prime}(1)$

### 1-4

Let $f(x)= \begin{cases}x^{2} \sin \frac{1}{x}, & x \neq 0 \\ 0, & x=0\end{cases}$

Which of the following statements is correct?

(A) $f^{\prime \prime}(0)=0$ and $(0,0)$ is a point of inflection

(B) $f^{\prime \prime}(0)=0$ and $(0,0)$ is not a point of inflection

(C) $f^{\prime \prime}(0)$ does not exist and $(0,0)$ is a point of inflection

(D) $f^{\prime \prime}(0)$ does not exist and $(0,0)$ is not a point of inflection

### 1-5

Which of the following statements must be correct?

(A) If $f(x)$ is differentiable at $x=a$, then $|f(x)|$ is differentiable at $x=a$

(B) If $|f(x)|$ is differentiable at $x=a$, then $f(x)$ is differentiable at $x=a$

(C) If $f(x)$ is differentiable at $x=a$ and $f(a)=0, f^{\prime}(a)=0$, then $|f(x)|$ is differentiable at $x=a$

(D) If $f(x)$ is differentiable at $x=a$ and $f(a)=0, f^{\prime}(a) \neq 0$, then $|f(x)|$ is differentiable at $x=a$

## 二

Fill in the blanks

### 2-1

Let $\quad f(x)= \begin{cases}\sqrt{1-(x-1)^{2}}, & \text { if } 0 \leq x \leq 2 \\ -\sqrt{4-(x-4)^{2}}, & \text { if } 2 \leq x \leq 6\end{cases}$

According to the relationship between definite integral and area,  $\int_{0}^{6} f(x) d x=$

### 2-2

The linearization of $f(x)=\sqrt[3]{1+5 x^{4}}$ at $x=0$ is $L(x)=$ $\underline{\quad\quad\quad}$

### 2-3

Let $f(x)=x^{3}+3 x+1$. Use Newton's method to find the root of $f(x)=0$. Start with $x_{0}=1$, then $x_{2}=$ $\underline{\quad\quad\quad}$

### 2-4

If $f(x)+x \sin (f(x))=x^{2}+1$, then $f^{\prime}(0)=$ $\underline{\quad\quad\quad}$

### 2-5

If $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow \infty} f^{\prime}(x)=10$, then $\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow \infty}(f(x+10)-f(x))=$ $\underline{\quad\quad\quad}$

## 三

A rectangle is to be inscribed in the ellipse $\frac{x^{2}}{4}+y^{2}=1$

What should the dimensions of the rectangle be to maximize its area? What is the maximum area?

## 四

Let $\left.\quad \frac{d}{d x} f(\sin x)\right|_{x=0}=\left.\frac{d}{d x} f^{2}(\sin x)\right|_{x=0}$, and $f^{\prime}(0) \neq 0$. Find $f(0)$

## 五

Determine if the following limits exist or not. If so, find the limit. If not, explain why. (L'Hopital's Rule is not allowed to be used.)

### 5-1

$\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow 1} \frac{x^{4}-1}{\sqrt{3+x}-2}$

### 5-2

$\lim\limits_{x \rightarrow-\infty} \frac{x^{2} \sin \frac{1}{2 x}}{\sqrt{x^{2}+2024 x+1}}$

## 六

Let $f(x)=x^{\frac{2}{3}}(6-x)^{\frac{1}{3}}$

### 6-1

Identify where the local extrema of $f$ occur. Find the function's local extreme values

### 6-2

Find the open intervals where the graph of $f$ is concave up and where it is concave down

### 6-3

Sketch the graph

## 七

Find $a \neq 0$ such that the curves $y=\frac{1}{2} x^{2}$ and $y^{2}+x y=a$ are tangent to each other, and find the equation of the tangent line at the point of tangency

## 八

Assume that $f$ is continuous on $[0, \infty)$, differentiable on $(0, \infty), f(0)=0$ and $f^{\prime}$ is increasing on $(0, \infty)$. Prove that $\frac{f(x)}{x}$ is also increasing on $(0, \infty)$
