Answer


2021-2022 Calculus I Mid


1.Multiple Choice Questions:

（1）.$B$

（2）.A

（3）.C

（4）.A

（5）.C

2.Fill in the blanks:

（1）. 3

（2）.$n$ !

（3）.$\frac{2 \sin x+x \cos x}{4 \sqrt{x \sin x \sqrt{\sin x}}}$

（4）.$\frac{1}{6}$

（5）.$y=x+1$

3.$S_{\Delta} \leq 100$ ，the equal sign holds when $a=b=10 \sqrt{2}$

4.$\left.\frac{d y}{d x}\right|_{x=0}=0,\left.\frac{d^{2} y}{d x^{2}}\right|_{x=0}=-\frac{1}{2}$

5. $2 \pi-\frac{(\pi)^{2}}{2}$

6.（1）$\frac{4}{3}$

（2）$\frac{11}{3}$

7.（1）$\frac{1}{24}$

（2）$\frac{1}{2}$

8.$y=2 x+1$

9.when $x=\frac{\pi}{4}, f(x)$ takes its minimum and $f\left(\frac{\pi}{4}\right)=2 \sqrt{2}-1$

2020-2021 Calculus I Mid


1.Multiple Choice Questions:

（1）.B

（2）.A

（3）.B

（4）.D

（5）.C

2.Fill in the blanks:

（1）. 0

（2）.$\frac{1}{12}$

（3）.$\frac{1}{3} x^{3}+2 x-\frac{1}{x}-\frac{1}{3}$

（4）.-2

（5）.$\frac{a}{\sqrt{a^{2}+1}}$

3.（1） 0 .（2）$-\frac{3}{2}$

4.（1） 4 .$(2) \frac{1}{3}+\frac{\pi}{2}$

5.（1）local maxima at $x=\sqrt{2}$ ，local minima at $x=-\sqrt{2}$

$\square$

$y=\frac{\left(x^{3}+x-2\right)}{x-x^{2}}$

（2）horizontal asymptote: not exist；vertical asymptote:  $\mathrm{x}=0$ ；oblique asymptotes: $y=-x-1$

6.（1）$\frac{d y}{d x}=4 \sqrt{x^{2}+x}$

（2）$y=-\frac{5}{4}(x-5)+4$

7.The area is $\frac{1}{3}$

8.The volume is $\frac{9 \pi}{5}$

9.You can easily show the conclusion by the mean value theorem of integration for continuous functions

2019-2020 Calculus I Mid


1.True or False:

（1）.TRUE

（2）.FALSE

（3）.TRUE

（4）.TRUE

（5）.FALSE

（counter-example: $f(x)=1$ can be considered as peridic function with period 1 ，then $g(x)=x$ is not a periodic function with $f(x) \& g(x)$ satisying such condition）

2.Multiole Choice Questions:

（1）.D

（2）.B

（3）.C

（4）.D（keep ur eyes open: B is a Common Mistake ）

（5）.B

3.（1）Deravatives is nonnegative，and does not exist zero point which changes sign，so local maxima and local minima do not exist.inflection point:  $\mathrm{x}=0$

（2）horizontal asymptote: not exist；vertical asymptote: NE；oblique asymptotes: $y=x$

（3）

4.$(1) \frac{5}{4}+\sin 5$

（2）$\frac{\pi}{4}$

5.（1）$\frac{1}{6} a^{4}+\frac{1}{2}$

（2）$\frac{4 \sqrt{2}}{3}$

6.Write the explicit function respectively as $r_{1}(x)$（y from $\frac{2}{3} t o 1$ ）and $r_{2}$（y from $0 t o \frac{2}{3}$ ）on $\left[0, \frac{16}{9}\right]$ .Obviously，volume is $\int_{0}^{\frac{16}{9}}\left(\pi\left(2-r_{1}(x)\right)^{2}\right) d x-\int_{0}^{\frac{16}{9}}\left(\pi\left(2-r_{2}(x)\right)^{2}\right) d x=$ $\underline{\quad\quad\quad}$

此类题不考，无需担心。

7.$f\left(\frac{11 \pi}{60}\right)=\frac{\pi}{45}+\frac{\sqrt{3}}{3}$

8.The area is $\int_{0}^{2}\left(3-x-\frac{1}{4} x^{2}\right) d x-\int_{0}^{1}(3-x-(\sqrt{x}+1)) d x=\frac{5}{2}$

9.All critical points on $\mathbb{R}$ can be found，$x=0 / \pm\left(\frac{\pi}{4}+\frac{k \pi}{2}\right)^{\frac{1}{4}}$ ，where $\mathrm{k}=0,1,2 \ldots$ . In the interval $[-1,1], x=0 / \pm\left(\frac{\pi}{4}\right)^{\frac{1}{4}}$

10.Structure $\phi(x)=f(x)-\alpha x-\beta_{\text {then }}$ let $\alpha=\frac{f(b)-f(a)}{b-a}$ ，hence，by Rolle＇s theorem，qed

2022-2023 Calculus I Mid


1. Multiple Choice Questions:

(1).C

(2). $B$

(3).A

(4). C

(5).A

2. Fill in the blanks:

(1). $\frac{2}{\pi}$

(2). 16 or -16

(3).more than 2 methods, $\frac{11}{2^{15 / 4}}$

(4). 2

(5). 0

3. Proof. recall how we show the existence of root. And we assume there only 1 root and deduce a contradiction algebraically

I draw 2 figures for illustration

Plot $\left[x^{\wedge} 5+2 x-100,\{x,-1,3\}\right]$

绘图

4. $\frac{37}{168}$ substitution: $x \rightarrow \tan \theta$

5. we know linear approximate part $\mathcal{L}(x)=f\left(x_{0}\right)+f^{\prime}\left(x_{0}\right) \cdot\left(x-x_{0}\right)$ answer is $\frac{3}{2} x+3$

6. hint: rewrite $2(x-1)+3+\frac{b+1}{x-1}, \mathrm{~b}=-1 . \mathrm{a}=3$

7. nothing to write, you just take the derivative of that, and then solve the equation

8. $y=\frac{1}{7}(x-1)+1$,hint: $2 y^{3}-y^{2}+3 y-4=0 \rightarrow(y-1)(\ldots)$

9. $F(x)=\int_{0}^{x} x t f\left(x^{2}-t^{2}\right) d t=\ldots=\ldots=\ldots=-\frac{1}{2} x \int_{0}^{x} f\left(-t^{2}+x^{2}\right) d\left(-t^{2}+x^{2}\right)$ then you can compute it..

