# 2024春 线性代数期末(回忆版)

## 一 Multiple Choice: Only one choice is correct

### 1-1

Let $A$ be an $m \times m$ real symmetric matrix. Which of the following assertions is false？()

(A) If $v_{1}$ and $v_{2}$ are two m-dimensional real column vectors which satisfy $A v_{1}=v_{1}$ and $A v_{2}=0$, then $v_{1}$ and $v_{2}$ are orthogonal

(B) There exists a real invertible matrix $P$ such that $P^{-1} A P$ is diagonal

(C) A has $m$ distinct eigenvalues

(D) The sum of algebraic multiplicities of the distinct eigenvalues of $A$ is $m$

### 1-2

Let $A$ be an $m \times n$ real matrix and $U \Sigma V^{\top}$ be a singular value decomposition of $A$. Which of the following assertions is false？()

(A) The columns of $U$ are eigenvectors of $A A^{\top}$

(B) The columns of $V$ are eigenvectors of $A^{\top} A$

(C) The eigenvalues of $A A^{\top}$ and $A^{\top} A$ are real and positive

(D) $A A^{\top}$ and $A^{\top} A$ have the same set of positive eigenvalues

### 1-3

Let $A$ be an $n \times n$ real matrix. If for any $x \in R^{n}$, we have $x^{\top} A x=0$, then( )

(A) $|A|=0$

(B) $A^{\top}=-A$

(C) $A=0$. Where 0 denotes the $n \times n$ zero matrix

(D) the eigenvalues of $A$ are all zero

### 1-4

Which of the following matrices is NOT diagonalizable？( )

(A) $\left[\begin{array}{lll}0 & 0 & 0 \\ 1 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 2 & 1\end{array}\right]$

(B) $\left[\begin{array}{ccc}1 & 2 & -1 \\ 2 & 0 & 0 \\ -1 & 0 & 0\end{array}\right]$

(C) $\left[\begin{array}{ccc}0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 \\ 1 & 2 & -1\end{array}\right]$

(D) $\left[\begin{array}{lll}0 & 0 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 0 \\ 0 & 1 & 2\end{array}\right]$

### 1-5

Let $A$ be a $3 \times 3$ permutation matrix. Then $\operatorname{det}(-(A^{\top})^{2024})$ equals( )

(A)  0

(B)  2024

(C)  1

(D) -1

## 二 Fill in the blanks

### 2-1

Suppose $A$ =

$$
\left[
\begin{array}{ccc}
a & b & -\frac{3}{7} \\
-\frac{3}{7} & c & \frac{2}{7} \\
\frac{2}{7} & d & e
\end{array}
\right]
$$

is an orthogonal matrix. Then $a=$ $\underline{\quad\quad\quad}$, $e=$ $\underline{\quad\quad\quad}$

### 2-2

Let $A$ and $B$ be two $n \times n$ real matrices $|A|=4,|B|=3$ and $|A^{-1}+B|=2$, then $|A+B^{-1}|=$ $\underline{\quad\quad\quad}$

### 2-3

Let $A$ be a $3 \times 3$ matrix. Suppose $|A|=-5$ and $A^{2}+4 A-5 I=0$, then the three eigenvalues of $A$ are $\underline{\quad\quad\quad}$. Where I denotes the $3 \times 3$ identity matrix and

0 denotes the $3 \times 3$ zero matrix

### 2-4

Suppose

$$
A=\left[
\begin{array}{lll}
1 & a & 1 \\
a & b & a \\
1 & a & 1
\end{array}
\right] \text { and } B = \left[
\begin{array}{lll}
2 & 0 & 0 \\
0 & b & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 0
\end{array}
\right]
$$

are similar, then $a=$ $\underline{\quad\quad\quad}$

## 三

Consider the following matrix $A=\left[\begin{array}{lll}4 & 2 & 2 \\ 2 & 4 & 2 \\ 2 & 2 & 4\end{array}\right]$

### 3-a

Find all the eigenvalues of $A$

### 3-b

Find an orthogonal matrix $Q$ such that $Q^{-1} A Q$ is diagonal

### 3-c

Compute $A^{k}$ for any positive integer $K$

## 四

Find the determinant of the following $7 \times 7$ matrix:

$$
A=\left[
\begin{array}{lllllll}
5 & 3 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
2 & 5 & 3 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
0 & 2 & 5 & 3 & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 2 & 5 & 3 & 0 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 0 & 2 & 5 & 3 & 0 \\
0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 2 & 5 & 3 \\
0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 2 & 5
\end{array}
\right]
$$

## 五

Let $\quad A=\left[\begin{array}{ll}1 & 1 \\ 2 & 3 \\ 4 & 5\end{array}\right]$

### 5-a

Find all the eigenvalues and their corresponding linearly independent eigenvectors of $P=A(A^{\top} A)^{-1} A^{\top}$

### 5-b

Show that $P$ is diagonalizable

## 六

Consider the following quadratic form:

$$
Q(x, y, z)=\lambda(x^{2}+y^{2}+z^{2})+2 x y+2 x z-2 y z
$$

### 6-a

For what values of $\lambda$ is $Q(x, y, z)$ positive definite?

### 6-b

For what values of $\lambda$ is $Q(x, y, z)$ negative definite?

### 6-c

Find the type of quadric surface defined by the following equation:

$$
3(x^{2}+y^{2}+z^{2})+2 x y+2 x z-2 y z=1
$$

## 七

Let $A$ and $B$ be $n \times n$ real matrices. The trace of $A$ is defined to be the sum of all of its diagonal entries:

$$
\operatorname{tr}(A)=a_{11}+a_{22}+\cdots+a_{n n}
$$

### 7-a

Suppose $A$ is similar to $B$, prove that

$$
\operatorname{tr}(A)=\operatorname{tr}(B)
$$

### 7-b

Let $A$ and $B$ be real symmetric positive semidefinite matrices. Show that $\operatorname{tr}(A B)>0$

### 7-c

Suppose $A$ and $B$ are real symmetric positive semidefinite matrices and $\operatorname{tr}(A B)=0$. show that $A B=0$. Where 0 denotes the $n \times n$ zero matrix
