$\section*{2019秋高数上期末（回忆版）}$


1．Determine whether the following statements are true or false？No justification is necessary．

（1）If $k>0$ ，then $1 n^{100} x<x^{0.0001}<2^{k x}$ for sufficiently large $x$ ．

（2）If $f$ is continuous on $R$ ，then $\int_{0}^{a} f(a-x) d x=\int_{0}^{a} f(x) d x$ ．

（3）If the graph of a differentiable function $f(x)$ is concave up on an open interval $(a, b)$ ， then $f(x)$ has a local minimum value at a point $c \in(a, b)$ if and only if $f^{\prime}(c)=0$ ．

（4）If $|f(x)|$ is continuous at $x=a$ ，then so is $(f(x))^{2}$ ．

（5）Suppose that $f(a)=g(a)=0$ ，that $f$ and $g$ are differentiable on an open interval I containing $a$ ，and that $g^{\prime}(x) \neq 0$ on I if $x \neq a$ ．If $\lim _{x \rightarrow a} \frac{f^{\prime}(x)}{g^{\prime}(x)}$ does not exist，then neither does $\lim _{x \rightarrow a} \frac{f(x)}{g(x)}$ ．

2．Multiple Choice Questions：（only one correct answer for each of the following questions．）

（1）If $g(x)$ is one－to－one，and $g(1)=3, g(3)=1, g^{\prime}(1)=4, g^{\prime}(3)=28$ ，then $\left(g^{-1}\right)^{\prime}(3)=$

（A）$\frac{1}{4}$

（B）$\frac{1}{28}$

（C）$\frac{1}{3}$

（D） 4 ．

（2）Let $c>0$ ．How many real roots are there for the equation $x^{3}-6 x^{2}+9 x+c=0$ ？

（A） 0

（B） 1

（c） 2

（D） 3

（3）Suppose $\lim _{x \rightarrow 0^{+}} f(x)=a, ~ \lim _{x \rightarrow-} f(x)=b$ ，then $\lim _{x \rightarrow 0^{-}}\left(f(x-\sin x)+2 f\left(x^{2}+x\right)\right)=$

（A）$a+2 b$

（B）$b+2 a$

（C） $3 a$

（D） 36 ．

（4）If $f(x)=\frac{\ln |x|}{|x-1|} \sin x$ ，then the function $f(x)$ has

（A）I removable discontinuity and I jump discontinuity．

（B） 2 removable discontinuities．

（C）I removable discontinuity and I infinite discontinuity．

（D） 2 jump discontinuities．

3．If the function $f(x)=\left\{\begin{array}{l}a \cdot \sin x, x \leq \frac{\pi}{4} \\ 1+b \cdot \tan x, \frac{\pi}{4}<x<\frac{\pi}{2}\end{array}\right.$

is differentiable at $x=\frac{\pi}{4}$ ，find the values of $a$ and $b$ ．

（5）Let $f(x)$ be a continuous function，and $a$ is a nonzero constant．Which of the following function is an odd function？

（A） $\int_{a}^{x}\left(\int_{0}^{u} t f\left(t^{2}\right) d t\right) d u$

（B） $\int_{0}^{x}\left(\int_{a}^{u} f\left(t^{3}\right) d t\right) d u$

（C） $\int_{0}^{x}\left(\int_{a}^{u} t f\left(t^{2}\right) d t\right) d u$

（D） $\int_{a}^{x}\left(\int_{0}^{u}(f(t))^{2} d t\right) d u$ ．

4．Evaluate the following limits．

（1） $\lim _{x \rightarrow 0} \frac{\tan ^{-1} x-x}{x \tan ^{2} x}$

（2） $\lim _{x \rightarrow \infty} \frac{(x+100)^{100 x}}{x^{\operatorname{lot} 0}}$ ．

5．Find the area of the region enclosed by the curve $y=\left|x^{2}-4\right|$ and $y=\frac{x^{2}}{2}+4$ ．

6. The graph of the equation $x^{\frac{2}{3}}+y^{\frac{2}{3}}=1$ is an astroid. Find the area of the surface generated by revolving the curve about the $x$-axis.

7. The point $P(a, b)$ lies on the curve $l:(y-x)^{3}=y+x$, and the slope of the tangent line of $l$ at $P(a, b)$ is 3 . Find the values of $a$ and $b$.

8. Find $f^{\prime}(2)$ if $f(x)=e^{g(x)}$ and $g(x)=\int_{2}^{\frac{x^{x}}{2}} \frac{t}{1+t^{4}} d t$.

9. Evaluate the integrals.

(1) $\int \frac{d x}{\sqrt{1+e^{x}}}$

(2) $\int \frac{3 x+6}{(x-1)^{2}\left(x^{2}+x+1\right)} d x$.

(3) $\int_{\frac{\pi}{8}}^{\frac{\pi}{8}} \tan ^{2} x \sec x d x$.

(4) $\int_{\frac{1}{2}}^{\frac{3}{2}} \frac{1}{\sqrt{\left|x-x^{2}\right|}} d x$.

10. An $1600-L$ tank is half full of fresh water; i.e., contains $800-L$ of fresh water. At the time $t=0$, a solution containing $0.0625 \mathrm{~kg} / \mathrm{L}$ of salt runs into the tank at the rate of $16 \mathrm{~L} / \mathrm{min}$, and the mixture is pumped out of the tank at the rate of $8 \mathrm{~L} / \mathrm{min}$. At the time the tank is full, how many kilograms of salt will it contain?

1. $f(x)$ is differentiable, and $f^{\prime}(x)>0$ on $(0,+\infty)$. Let $F(x)=\int_{\frac{1}{x}}^{1} x f(u) d u+\int_{1}^{\frac{1}{x}} \frac{f(u)}{u^{2}} d u$.

(1) Identify the open intervals on which $F(x)$ is decreasing and the open intervals on which $F(x)$ is increasing.

(2) Find the open intervals on which the graph of $y=F(x)$ is concave up and the open intervals on which it is concave down.

12. Let $g$ be a function that is differentiable throughout an open interval containing the origin. Suppose $g$ has the following properties:

(i) $g(x+y)=\frac{g(x)+g(y)}{1-g(x) g(y)}$ for all real numbers $x, y$, and $x+y$ in the domain of $g$.

(ii) $\lim _{h \rightarrow 0} g(h)=0$

(iii) $\lim _{h \rightarrow 0} \frac{g(h)}{h}=1$.

Find $g(x)$.

